Welcome back in in this lesson let's have some fun with what we've learned previously how we can manipulate
how we can grab information that's available on the web page and update it.
So it actually doesn't even have to be our own web pages.
And of course because the door is created within the rendering of the web page source code whenever
we refresh it's going to go away.
So you're not actually going to be going in and updating anybody's Web site but this could be a quick
trick in order to access information contained within the Web site and actually make some updates to
it.
So let's go and open up our browser so this can be any web page you want it can be even the one that
you're on right now watching the video.
So all you have to do is find an element that's got an I.D. and let's say for instance under chrome
dev tools we can do an inspect on open dev tools and we can see that this particular element is called
ID has an ID of open.
So let's open up the console.
So a variable and I get into the variable A and that is to document.
So documents and do that get element by id and then ID is called Open.
So select that element and place it within a.
So see if I take a look and actually grab that and that information is being contained within a.
So let's take a look and see what's contained within our text there.
And we can see that we've grabbed that element properly.
We've got open and have tools.
And now we know that just as we do before we can actually uptick that are tax.
So let's do something like this little world and update it and we see that what happens now is that
for this instance of this particular web page even though it's on a different server I don't really
have access to the source code.
I can manipulate it because this is an instance of it and I've caught all of that access to what's happening
within the dorm so I can select any number of elements and make updates to them simply by just grabbing
them within the DOM within the web page.
So now I wouldn't want you to do is pause the video.
Open up your browser and you can go to any page you like.
Look through the source code find one that has an ID and update some of the text that's available on
the web page and you might have to spend a little bit of time trying to find ones that actually have
IDs.
Maybe they don't all have IDs.
So in this particular case I can see that another one device more discovered of tools.
So it doesn't have to be this web page but just make sure that you're able to actually identify those
elements and later on in the course I'm going to show you other ways of making those selections and
being able to select those elements.
So even if it doesn't have an I.D. there's ways to select it and that's going to be coming up in the
latter part of the course.
So for now open up your browser.
If it's not open already or open up and you're tired go to your favorite web page and take a look at
the source code grab an element that has an ID and update that enter peached himself or the entire text
of it.
You can even have some fun with updating that age to melt.
So try it for yourself.
And I know that you want more coming up as well.
So have an opportunity to try this out for yourself and it is really good practice getting familiar
and making those selections.
So I'm going to just grab another one that I've got here so this one's called device dash board.
So let's set up a variable and you don't actually need to set up a variable so maybe what I want to
do is maybe I want to just make this update to it just right away so if it's get element by ID and I
believe it was called to vice and I don't need to go back.
So it was device mode.
And now let's set that interface to all of this particular object.
So let's change this to each one.
And big words are you are you are now.
So whatever message you want to put in there.
And of course you can have some fun with this.
So what I'm going to change it is I change this value as soon as I hit enter and it's going to update
that value.
So there we go.
So we updated the H2 mail here and we've rewritten our own words into it.
So the good thing about when you select it within a variable and this is the obviously the advantages
of variables is that you can make updates to it as you need to.
So this time what I want to do is I actually want to update the entire text of that element.
To equal the title of the web page and remember from before this information is contained within the
document object.
So we have access to all of that information.
So pause the video and try it for yourself.
You can even there you can either put the value of the document title into a variable and then place
within your inner tax or you could just do it with one big statement like this one over here or you
could place that element within a variable and then attach that value as a number of ways to do this.
And since I've already got the value of this particular element already within that object A I'm going
to just simply update that enter text above syntax in order to grab the document.
It was simply a document title.
So now when I press Enter we see that we're updating this value with information contained within the
document object.
So this is important because we can see that we can connect information we can update information on
her page.
We can pull back information from the document object.
So there is a lot you can do with it.
And this really does open up the door to creating interactive and dynamic web page content.
And this is what javascript is all about.
So now we're able to actually update our content and pull back information about the web page.
So there's one other part that I want to show you about the dawn.
And that's how we can get four volumes.
So this is going to be another important part of getting information from our Web page and creating
that interaction from our Web users.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.